Today we are talking about the absolute
race to productize and get agents
enterprise ready. Welcome back to the AI
daily brief. We are coming up on the end
of Q1 and as part of that I've been
working on a big quarter 2 state of AI
report. As you might expect, maybe the
key story of Q1 was OpenClaw. Not even
just because of OpenClaw itself, but
because of what it represented. I think
you can look at OpenClaw as the
instantiation of the new capability set
that shifted around the end of last year
and which has really come to the four
this year. It's what I called on
yesterday's episode AI second moment and
refers to this idea that agents are
actually at this point viable and that
people are in the midst of a million
experiments right now giving agent
systems access building new types of
systems to have agents interact and
especially and as we'll talk about today
solving some of the key challenges of
agents to make sure that they can
diffuse across the entire business
world. Part of the specific catalyst for
today's show is Nvidia CEO Jensen Hong's
speech at their annual GTC event
yesterday where Jensen said explicitly
every software company in the world
needs to have an openclaw strategy and
where he began to show off their
enterprisegrade version of the software.
Now even before this the clawification
of the world was well underway. Kevin
Simbach from Deli Labs recently wrote a
post about all of the different
variations and competitors and started
by claiming that open claw opened the
door. Kevin writes, "Before OpenClaw,
agents were mostly technical experiments
that produced nothing more than timeline
sllo. After OpenClaw and with the advent
of Opus 45 and 46, agents became
accessible, just a telegram message
away, always on, actually doing helpful
things, and kickstarting a new
generation of digital opportunities.
Open Claw quickly proved two things at
once. People don't want AI chat. They
want to get work done. And giving an LLM
broad access to your machine and or
personal info is both insanely useful
and mildly terrifying. So, as he writes,
the last month has been a weird kind of
Darwinism with builders shipping faster
than slot posters, security people
screaming into the void and a growing
cohort of people saying, "Oh crap, this
is actually going to rewrite how
software and digital businesses work."
And yet, as Kevin acknowledges, not
everyone is sold on OpenClaw itself. And
there has been a mad race to build or
update alternatives. A bunch of them
like Nanobot, ZeroClaw, Picoclaw, or
Nanoclaw are all attempts to reduce the
overall complexity down to some specific
useful feature set. And then there's
others like Open Fang, Hermes, Moltus,
and Ironclaw that are all trying to
bring security to it through
self-hosting. Yet, if that represents
one end of the spectrum of the
clawification of AI on the other hand,
you have a huge number of companies,
some that were AI native, some that
weren't AI native, offering up what are
effectively their own versions of
OpenClaw. In other words, agents that
are deeply integrated and integrable
with some key set of systems and
personal context. At the end of
February, Notion introduced custom
agents which have a lot of features in
common with OpenClaw and also all of the
context that comes from integration with
notion where many companies are running
all of their information. And of course,
we also got Perplexity Computer.
Perplexity Computer is a very
fullthroated reimagining of Perplexity
from the ground up into a complete
problem solution design system capable
of spinning up complex systems of agents
and sub aents to get things done and
build things that people want. In the
couple weeks since Perplexity released
computer, they've also released computer
for enterprise which can operate from
within Slack and which also has direct
connections they claim to more than 400
applications. And they also even got on
the Mac Mini part of the theme with
their launch of personal computer which
they call an always on local merge with
Perplexity computer that works for you
24/7. Getting philosophical, Perplexity
CEO Arvin Shrinabas wrote a long post
about why the AI is the computer. In it,
he argues AI models are becoming so
capable that the products built around
them have been bottlenecked for showing
their true potential. The chat UI is
good for answers and agents are good for
individual tasks. Meanwhile, the UI for
entire workflows has always been the
computer. Effectively, what Arvind is
arguing is that the full potential of
agentic systems requires the complete
canvas of what your computer offers.
Bridging from local files to cloud
systems and beyond. Which brings us to
the not one, not two, not even really
three, but closer to three and a half
new entrance into this clification of
everything category that were announced
just yesterday. Manis, which was
purchased by Meta in December, was one
of the early leaders throughout 2025 in
general purpose agents. This week, they
announced a new Manis desktop app, the
key feature of which they called my
computer. Very much picking up on the
new design pattern, they write, "It's
your AI agent now on your local
machine." The use cases they point to
include organizing thousands of unsorted
photos, renaming hundreds of invoices,
building desktop apps in Swift entirely
on your computer with no code written
manually, combining with existing
connectors to create seamless automated
workflows, and creating local routines
with personal projects, agents, and
scheduled tasks. In the blog post,
without naming openclaw, they
acknowledge the realization of the need
to be able to bridge from cloud to
local. They write the cloud sandbox has
served men well inside an isolated
secure environment. It has everything an
AI agent needs. Networking, a command
line, a file system, and a browser. This
is the foundation of Manis' power as a
general AI agent, always online and
always ready to work. However, there has
always been a fundamental limitation.
Your most important work happens on your
own computer. Your project files,
development environments, and essential
applications all reside locally, not in
the cloud. My computer then is a way to
close that gap. Now, one interesting
thing about the Manis announcement is
that they're thinking a little bit ahead
in terms of the specific opportunities
that come with desktop. for example,
doing something that I haven't seen from
a lot of the other competitors. They're
actually pushing the idea of building
fully working Mac apps, not just
cloud-based applications that other
people would use. Cedric Chi writes,
"Cloud Code, Cowwork, OpenClaw, Codeex,
and Manis all seem to be converging on
the same idea. The agent lives on your
machine." The second related
announcement yesterday came from
Adaptive. They wrote, "Introducing
adaptive computer. We put AI inside of
an always on personal computer that it
uses to get work done. Schedule agents,
create software, automate anything. By
the end of this year, they write, "AI
agents will use more software than
humans do. You won't be the one clicking
the button or browsing the web page.
Your agent will that requires a new kind
of computer. We built one. Most business
software, they continue the same
problem. Someone has to sit there and
operate it, moving data, updating
records, filling out forms. That someone
is usually you." The example they gave,
interestingly, is the real world
business example of a hardware store
owner who has 47 new products in a
spreadsheet and needs them to get added
to Square. Adaptive says, "Drag the file
into Adaptive, tell it what you want,
and it handles the rest." Out of scope
of this particular show, but I think
it's super interesting that you're
seeing these very bleeding edge tech
companies trying to appeal to the
hardware store owner use case. They then
go on to pitch their secret sauce, which
they call encoded memory. They write,
"What makes Adaptive different is what
happens after. It encodes what it
learned, how Square works, how your
catalog is organized, and how you prefer
things to be done. So the next week when
you ask for a daily sales report at 8
p.m., builds the agent, schedules it,
pulls from Square data that it already
knows. Now, anytime there's a new
launch, it tends to be pretty hard to
get good signal from Twitter at this
point because so much of the discourse
is either AI bots or undisclosed paid
tweets. But Ole Lemon did write of a
good experience that he recently had
through adaptive. The example he gave
was automating YouTube AI research.
Basically, his argument is that YouTube
has a ton of really great videos on
in-depth AI systems that are extremely
up-to-date and current with the moment,
but there is a ton to filter through
that makes it hard to sit around and
browse to get the diamonds in the rough.
The prompt he gave adaptive was,
"Analyze YouTube videos about AI and
Claude workflows from the last 24 hours
that have at least 10,000 views. Pull
the full transcripts, extract the top
three most tactical and actionable
workflows, and send me a daily email
report every morning."
The third and maybe biggest openclaw and
agent related announcement yesterday
however came from Nvidia. The context
for that quote we heard at the beginning
about every company needing an openclaw
strategy was the setup for Jensen
introducing Nemo claw. Now functionally
this is not actually a standalone agent
but rather a software toolkit built on
top of the openclaw project. Openclaw
creator Peter Steinberger wrote
yesterday been so much fun cooking open
shell and Nemoclaw with the Nvidia
folks. huge step towards secure agents
you can trust. So what this is is
basically an approach that adds privacy
and security to OpenClaw instances by
giving them an isolated sandbox to work
in. The agent can still access resources
as necessary, but the Nemo Claw stack
formalizes access control. Specifically,
it integrates into policybased security
and other guardrails to theoretically
allow it to operate safely within
enterprises. Neimoclaw is model and
hardware agnostic and allows users to
choose between cloud and local models.
Encapsulating this whole shift, Jensen
Huang said, "Open Cloud gave the
industry exactly what it needed at
exactly the time. Just as Linux gave the
exactly the time, just as Kubernetes
showed up at exactly the right time,
just as HTML showed up. It made it
possible for the entire industry to grab
onto this open source stack and go do
something with it. Now, what's been
interesting about the response is that
for most, although not for all, this
hasn't been a jump the shark or jump the
lobster moment. Instead, people have
been pretty enthusiastic about what
Nvidia is trying to do. Kevin Simbach
again writes, "Excited to dig into
Nemoclaw. I've spent a good bit of my
career in enterprise. I've been pretty
vocal about OpenClaw not being
enterprise ready, but the concept of an
agentic workforce is a killer and
enterprises are going to want it, so
this may be what really kicks it off."
Tristan Rhodess writes, "I've been
avoiding OpenClaw and waiting for it to
mature. There have been countless
variation in forks along the way, but
Nvidia is the most valuable company in
the history of the world. Does that mean
Nemo Claw becomes the dominant variation
of OpenClaw? Eric Sue wrote an entire ex
article called Nvidia just solved the
one problem blocking AI agents. Of
course, all about the security concerns.
Now, one thing I will say that's been
interesting from our own experience.
Regular listeners know we have two
different Open Claw related things going
on right now. Claw Camp is an open,
free, self-directed program that walks
people step by step through setting up
their own openclaw and giving them
access to a community of other builders
who can help them along the way that at
this point more than 7,000 people have
signed up to participate in. Enterprise
Claw, meanwhile, is a managed 6week
executive sprint that's meant to help
individual enterprise leaders and teams
from enterprises get that same sort of
learning, but in a much more in-depth
and supported way. Now as part of
enterprise claw we gave people the
choice to either use openclaw or do a
generic version of agent team building
using claw codeex cursor etc. And
interestingly it's about half and half
in terms of who wanted to learn on
openclaw versus who wanted to use other
systems. Meaning that even in the
pre-enterprisegrade openclaw world there
is still demand for figuring out how to
use this platform which I think is
certainly validation of everything that
Jensen is saying. Now, Robert Scobble
had an interesting note from the NVIDIA
GTC Expo Hall that was actually more
about OpenAI than it was about Nvidia.
He writes, "Visiting the Expo Hall shows
you why OpenAI is changing strategy. All
the big booths are enterprise. The
biggest news here is how Nvidia is
bringing Open Claw to the enterprise."
Which brings us to another important
story from yesterday. The Wall Street
Journal reports that OpenAI is done with
side quests and will refocus on nailing
a core business which is now more than
ever refocused on enterprise encoding.
The journal reporting states that CEO of
applications Fiji Simo has delivered a
wake-up call within the company,
pointing out that their do everything
strategy has reduced their lead on the
competition. Simo told staff last week,
"We cannot miss this moment because we
are distracted by side quests. We really
have to nail productivity in general and
particularly productivity on the
business front." Now, this is of course
a big shift away from Sam Alman's
traditional management approach, which
he described as betting on a series of
startups within the company that led to
a fairly dizzying array of product bets,
including the Sora app, the Atlas
browser, and the yet to be revealed
Johnny IVive device, just to name a few.
As basically everyone on AI Twitter has
done, the journal compared that approach
to Anthropic's very narrow strategy
built around agentic coding and the way
that that expands into broader sets of
knowledge work for the enterprise. Now,
it's not new that OpenAI has decided to
refocus efforts on similar themes.
That's been the big story since GPT5 was
released and codeex came out, but there
clearly seems to be a new urgency.
Interestingly, according to Simo, the
code red from last year is not over.
Last week, she told staff, "We are very
much acting as if it's a code red." And
while a lot of people are speculating
around what might get the axe because of
that, for example, the much maligned ads
approach, every day it seems we get some
new announcement around the codeex and
their larger coding suite. The most
recent and the one that we got yesterday
and that I think is coherent with all of
these clawification themes is the native
integration of sub agents into codecs.
The OpenAI developers account writes,
"You can accelerate your workflow by
spinning up specialized agents to keep
your main context window clean, tackle
different parts of a task in parallel,
steer individual agents as work
unfolds." LLM junkie and Will writes,
"In the next Codeex update, multi- aents
will get a massive flexibility upgrade.
Hey Codex, when you implement this plan,
I want you to delegate all of the lower
complexity tasks to GPT 5.3 Spark sub
agents instead of needing to create a
100 different custom agent roles for
different situations. You can just
prompt your agent to spawn whatever
model or reasoning level you want with
only natural language. Emanuel Dietro
went through some use cases for the sub
agent system. Things like code review
where he argues you could have one agent
per concern, test coverage with one sub
agent writing tests, another checking
edge cases and another validating, etc.,
etc. And it's clear that even though the
foot is still firmly on the gas, the
shift in OpenAI strategy seems to be
bearing some fruit. OpenAI President
Greg Brockman wrote yesterday, "GPT 5.4
has ramped faster than any other model
we've launched in the API within a week
of launch, 5 trillion tokens per day,
handling more volume than our entire API
1 year ago, and reaching an annualized
run rate of 1 billion in net new
revenue." Sam Alman showed a chart of
Codeex usage being very aggressively up
and to the right, adding, "The Codex
team are hardcore builders, and it
really comes through in what they
create. No surprise all the hardcore
builders I know have switched to Codex.
Responding to the news about OpenAI
shifting focus, Dwayne OnX writes, "I
actually thought OpenAI were already
doing a good job focusing on coding.
Codex is amazing for coding. One area
where they absolutely fail is UI. GBT
5.4 can't design to save its life. Even
if you have superdetailed skill to guide
it, it has zero taste. And for what it's
worth, I talked about this on my
operator show. This has very much been
my experience to the point where I can't
just give codeex guidelines. I literally
have to give it the actual design files
from Claude for it to copy exactly.
Although my experience with codecs when
it comes to actually building has been
really good. Summing all this up, if Q1
was a realization that agents are here
and a mass widescale experimentation
with the form factors and design
patterns introduced by OpenClaw, Q2 is
set up to be an absolute sprint to
productize those agents and get them
ready for broader diffusion, especially
within the enterprise. One thing that I
will be watching closely is how much old
patterns of productization where
conventional wisdom was all about
simplifying things for wider audiences
still hold. Given that the breakout was
this incredibly complex system in
OpenClaw, I'm not sure I know where the
right complexity band is going to be or
if it's going to be a spectrum of
different types of complexity for
different users, but I can guarantee
that just about everything that can be
tried will be tried in the quarter to
come. For now, that is going to do it
for today's AI daily brief. Appreciate
you listening or watching. as always.
And until next time, peace.